Add steps required for fluent-bit to upgrade (#1242)
SumoLogic/sumologic-kubernetes-collection: deploy/docs/v2_migration_doc.md

- `sumologic.setup.fields` become `sumologic.collector.fields` as Fields are
  set on a Collector

> - `spec.selector` in fluent-bit Helm Chart was modified from following form:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `spec.selector` in fluent-bit Helm Chart was modified from:
```

  ```yaml
  spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: fluent-bit
      release: <RELEASE-NAME>

  ```

  to

  ```yaml
  spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app.kubernetes.io/name: fluent-bit
      app.kubernetes.io/instance: <RELEASE-NAME>
  ```

## How to upgrade

### Requirements

- helm3

> - yq 3.4.0 or higher

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- yq in version: `4.0.0` < `x` <=`3.4.0` 
```

kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/release-0.43/example/prometheus-operator-crd/monitoring.coreos.com_thanosrulers.yaml
```

### 3. Prepare temporary instance of fluent-bit

As `spec.selector` in fluent-bit Helm chart was modified it is required to delete existing DaemonSet with old version of `spec.selector` before upgrade. To avoid of data loss a new temporary instance of fluent-bit needs to be created.

To create a temporary copy of fluent-bit DaemonSet:

```bash
kubectl get daemonset -n <NAMESPACE-NAME> -l "app=fluent-bit,release=<RELEASE-NAME>" -o yaml | \
yq w - "items[*].metadata.name" "tmp-fluent-bit" | \
yq w - "items[*].metadata.labels[app.kubernetes.io/name]" "fluent-bit" | \
yq w - "items[*].metadata.labels[app.kubernetes.io/instance]" "<RELEASE-NAME>" | \
yq w - "items[*].metadata.labels[heritage]" "tmp" | \
yq w - "items[*].spec.template.metadata.labels[app.kubernetes.io/name]" "fluent-bit" | \
yq w - "items[*].spec.template.metadata.labels[app.kubernetes.io/instance]" "<RELEASE-NAME>" | \
yq w - "items[*].spec.template.metadata.labels[heritage]" "tmp" | \

> kubectl create -f -

Reviewer 2: We should add requirements section, so everyone knows which `yq`, etc is needed

Reviewer: This has been added to v2 upgrade script https://github.com/SumoLogic/sumologic-kubernetes-collection/blob/170d7249ac0bf71e01c7b103082442fa9d5d8fce/deploy/helm/sumologic/upgrade-2.0.0.sh#L126-L131

and it's also mentioned in `How to upgrade -> Requirements` section of this PR

  yq w - "items[*].metadata.name" "tmp-fluent-bit" | \
  yq w - "items[*].metadata.labels[heritage]" "tmp" | \
  yq w - "items[*].spec.template.metadata.labels[app.kubernetes.io/name]" "fluent-bit" | \
  yq w - "items[*].spec.template.metadata.labels[app.kubernetes.io/instance]" "<RELEASE-NAME>" | \
  yq w - "items[*].spec.template.spec.initContainers[+]" --from <(echo "${INIT_CONTAINER}") | \
  yq w - "items[*].spec.template.spec.volumes[+]" --from <(echo "${TMP_VOLUME}") | \
  yq w - "items[*].spec.template.spec.containers[*].volumeMounts[*].(.==tail-db)" "tmp-tail-db" | \
  kubectl create --filename -
  ```

  Please make sure that Pods related to new DaemonSet are running:

  ```bash
  kubectl get pod --namespace <NAMESPACE-NAME> --selector "app=fluent-bit,release=<RELEASE-NAME>,app.kubernetes.io/name=fluent-bit,app.kubernetes.io/instance=<RELEASE-NAME>"
  ```

  Please check that the latest logs are duplicated in Sumo.

  To delete Fluent bit DaemonSet with old version of `spec.selector`:

  ```bash
  kubectl delete daemonset --namespace <NAMESPACE-NAME> --selector "app=fluent-bit,heritage=Helm,release=<RELEASE-NAME>"
  ```

>   **Notice:** It is required to remove the temporary copy of Fluent bit DaemonSet after upgrade.
>   When collection upgrade creates new DaemonSet for Fluent bit, logs will be duplicated.
>   In order to stop data duplication it is required to remove the temporary copy of Fluent bit DaemonSet after the upgrade has finished.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  **Notice:** When collection upgrade creates new DaemonSet for Fluent bit, logs will be duplicated.
  In order to stop data duplication it is required to remove the temporary copy of Fluent bit DaemonSet after the upgrade has finished.
```

kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/release-0.43/example/prometheus-operator-crd/monitoring.coreos.com_thanosrulers.yaml
```

### 3. Prepare fluent-bit instance

As `spec.selector` in fluent-bit Helm chart was modified it is required to recreate manually or delete existing DaemonSet
with old version of `spec.selector` before upgrade.

> One of two strategy can be selected:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the following two strategies can be used:
```

- #### Recreating fluent-bit DaemonSet

  Recreating fluent-bit DaemonSet with new `spec.selector` which may cause that applications logs and fluent-bit metrics
  will not be available in the time of recreation. It usually takes several seconds.

>   To recreate a fluent-bit DaemonSet with a new `spec.selector`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  To recreate the fluent-bit DaemonSet with new `spec.selector` one can run the following command:
```

  ```bash
  kubectl get daemonset -l "app=fluent-bit,release=<RELEASE-NAME>" -o yaml | \
  yq w - "items[*].spec.selector.matchLabels[app.kubernetes.io/name]" "fluent-bit" | \
  yq w - "items[*].spec.selector.matchLabels[app.kubernetes.io/instance]" "<RELEASE-NAME>" | \
  yq w - "items[*].spec.template.metadata.labels[app.kubernetes.io/name]" "fluent-bit" | \
  yq w - "items[*].spec.template.metadata.labels[app.kubernetes.io/instance]" "<RELEASE-NAME>" | \
  yq d - "items[*].spec.selector.matchLabels[app]" | \
  yq d - "items[*].spec.selector.matchLabels[release]" | \
  kubectl apply --force -f -
  ```

- #### Preparing temporary instance of fluent-bit

>   Create temporary instance of fluent-bit and delete DaemonSet with old version of `spec.selector`
>   which will cause that logs and metrics will be duplicated until temporary instance of fluent-bit will not be deleted
>   after upgrade.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Create temporary instance of fluent-bit and delete DaemonSet with old version of `spec.selector`.
  This will cause logs and metrics to be duplicated until temporary instance of fluent-bit is deleted
  after the upgrade is complete.
```

  EOF
  ) && \
  TMP_VOLUME=$(cat <<-"EOF"
      hostPath:
          path: /var/lib/fluent-bit/tmp
          type: DirectoryOrCreate
      name: tmp-tail-db
  EOF
  ) && \
  kubectl get daemonset -l "app=fluent-bit,release=<RELEASE-NAME>" -o yaml | \
  yq w - "items[*].metadata.name" "tmp-fluent-bit" | \
  yq w - "items[*].metadata.labels[heritage]" "tmp" | \
  yq w - "items[*].spec.template.metadata.labels[app.kubernetes.io/name]" "fluent-bit" | \
  yq w - "items[*].spec.template.metadata.labels[app.kubernetes.io/instance]" "<RELEASE-NAME>" | \
  yq w - "items[*].spec.template.spec.initContainers[+]" --from <(echo "${INIT_CONTAINER}") | \
  yq w - "items[*].spec.template.spec.volumes[+]" --from <(echo "${TMP_VOLUME}") | \
  yq w - "items[*].spec.template.spec.containers[*].volumeMounts[*].(.==tail-db)" "tmp-tail-db" | \
  kubectl create -f -
  ```

  Please make sure that Pods related to new DaemonSet are running:

  ```bash
  kubectl get pod -l "app=fluent-bit,heritage=tmp,release=<RELEASE-NAME>"
  ```

  To delete fluent-bit DaemonSet with old version of `spec.selector`:

  ```bash
  kubectl delete daemonset -l "app=fluent-bit,heritage=Helm,release=<RELEASE-NAME>"
  ```

>   When collection upgrade creates a new DaemonSet for fluent-bit logs and metrics will be duplicated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  When collection upgrade creates new DaemonSet for fluent-bit, logs and metrics will be duplicated.
```

kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/release-0.43/example/prometheus-operator-crd/monitoring.coreos.com_thanosrulers.yaml
```

### 3. Prepare Fluent bit instance

> As `spec.selector` in Fluent bit Helm chart was modified it is required to recreate manually or delete existing DaemonSet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As `spec.selector` in Fluent bit Helm chart was modified, it is required to manually recreate or delete existing DaemonSet
```

  ```bash
  kubectl get daemonset --namespace <NAMESPACE-NAME> --selector "app=fluent-bit,release=<RELEASE-NAME>" --output yaml | \
  yq w - "items[*].spec.selector.matchLabels[app.kubernetes.io/name]" "fluent-bit" | \
  yq w - "items[*].spec.selector.matchLabels[app.kubernetes.io/instance]" "<RELEASE-NAME>" | \
  yq w - "items[*].spec.template.metadata.labels[app.kubernetes.io/name]" "fluent-bit" | \
  yq w - "items[*].spec.template.metadata.labels[app.kubernetes.io/instance]" "<RELEASE-NAME>" | \
  yq d - "items[*].spec.selector.matchLabels[app]" | \
  yq d - "items[*].spec.selector.matchLabels[release]" | \
  kubectl apply --namespace <NAMESPACE-NAME>  --force --filename -
  ```

- #### Preparing temporary instance of Fluent bit

  Create temporary instance of Fluent bit and delete DaemonSet with old version of `spec.selector`.
  This will cause application logs to be duplicated until temporary instance of Fluent bit is deleted
  after the upgrade is complete. As temporary instance of Fluent bit creates additional Pods
  which are selected by the same Fluent bit Service you may observe changes in Fluent bit metrics.

>   Copy of database, in which Fluent bit keeps track of monitored files and offsets, is used by temporary instance of Fluent bit
>   (Fluent bit database is copied in initContainer). Temporary instance of fluent bit will start reading logs with offsets saved in database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Copy of database, in which Fluent bit keeps track of monitored files and offsets, is used by temporary instance of Fluent bit
  (Fluent bit database is copied in initContainer).
  Temporary instance of Fluent bit will start reading logs with offsets saved in database.
```

  yq w - "items[*].metadata.labels[heritage]" "tmp" | \
  yq w - "items[*].spec.template.metadata.labels[app.kubernetes.io/name]" "fluent-bit" | \
  yq w - "items[*].spec.template.metadata.labels[app.kubernetes.io/instance]" "<RELEASE-NAME>" | \
  yq w - "items[*].spec.template.spec.initContainers[+]" --from <(echo "${INIT_CONTAINER}") | \
  yq w - "items[*].spec.template.spec.volumes[+]" --from <(echo "${TMP_VOLUME}") | \
  yq w - "items[*].spec.template.spec.containers[*].volumeMounts[*].(.==tail-db)" "tmp-tail-db" | \
  kubectl create --filename -
  ```

  Please make sure that Pods related to new DaemonSet are running:

  ```bash
  kubectl get pod --namespace <NAMESPACE-NAME> --selector "app=fluent-bit,release=<RELEASE-NAME>,app.kubernetes.io/name=fluent-bit,app.kubernetes.io/instance=<RELEASE-NAME>"
  ```

  Please check that the latest logs are duplicated in Sumo.

  To delete Fluent bit DaemonSet with old version of `spec.selector`:

  ```bash
  kubectl delete daemonset --namespace <NAMESPACE-NAME> --selector "app=fluent-bit,heritage=Helm,release=<RELEASE-NAME>"
  ```

  **Notice:** It is required to remove the temporary copy of Fluent bit DaemonSet after upgrade.

>   When collection upgrade creates new DaemonSet for Fluent bit logs will be duplicated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  When collection upgrade creates new DaemonSet for Fluent bit, logs will be duplicated.
```

One of two strategy can be selected:

- #### Recreating fluent-bit DaemonSet
  

>   Recreating of DaemonSet with new `spec.selector` which may cause that applications logs and fluent-bit metrics will not be available in the time of recreation. It usually takes several seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Recreating DaemonSet with new `spec.selector` may cause that applications logs and fluent-bit metrics
  will not be available during the time pods are recreated. It usually takes several seconds.
```

  To recreate a fluent-bit DaemonSet with a new `spec.selector`:

  ```bash
  kubectl get daemonset -n <NAMESPACE-NAME> -l "app=fluent-bit,release=<RELEASE-NAME>" -o yaml | \
  yq w - "items[*].spec.selector.matchLabels[app.kubernetes.io/name]" "fluent-bit" | \
  yq w - "items[*].spec.selector.matchLabels[app.kubernetes.io/instance]" "<RELEASE-NAME>" | \
  yq w - "items[*].spec.template.metadata.labels[app.kubernetes.io/name]" "fluent-bit" | \
  yq w - "items[*].spec.template.metadata.labels[app.kubernetes.io/instance]" "<RELEASE-NAME>" | \
  yq d - "items[*].spec.selector.matchLabels[app]" | \
  yq d - "items[*].spec.selector.matchLabels[release]" | \
  kubectl apply --force -f -
  ```

- #### Preparing temporary instance of fluent-bit
  

>   Creating temporary instance of fluent-bit and deleting DaemonSet with old version of `spec.selector` which will cause that logs and metrics will be duplicated until temporary instance of fluent-bit will not be deleted after upgrade. To follow this procedure go to section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Create a temporary instance of fluent-bit and delete DaemonSet with old version of `spec.selector`
  which will cause that logs and metrics will be duplicated until temporary instance of fluent-bit will be deleted
  after upgrade.
  To follow this procedure go to section.
```

> To follow this procedure go to section
Which section?

  To create a temporary copy of fluent-bit DaemonSet:

  ```bash
  kubectl get daemonset -n <NAMESPACE-NAME> -l "app=fluent-bit,release=<RELEASE-NAME>" -o yaml | \
  yq w - "items[*].metadata.name" "tmp-fluent-bit" | \
  yq w - "items[*].metadata.labels[heritage]" "tmp" | \
  yq w - "items[*].spec.template.metadata.labels[app.kubernetes.io/name]" "fluent-bit" | \
  yq w - "items[*].spec.template.metadata.labels[app.kubernetes.io/instance]" "<RELEASE-NAME>" | \
  sed 's/\/var\/lib\/fluent-bit/\/var\/lib\/fluent-bit\/tmp/g' | \
  kubectl create -f -
  ```

  Please make sure that Pods related to new DaemonSet are running:

  ```bash
  kubectl get pod -l "app=fluent-bit,heritage=tmp,release=<RELEASE-NAME>"
  ```

  To delete fluent-bit DaemonSet with old version of `spec.selector`:

  ```bash
  kubectl delete daemonset -l "app=fluent-bit,heritage=Helm,release=<RELEASE-NAME>"
  ```

>   When collection upgrade will create a new DaemonSet for fluent-bit then logs and metrics will be duplicated. In order to avoid of data duplication in longer period it is required to remove the temporary copy of fluent-bit DaemonSet after upgrade.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  When collection upgrade creates a new DaemonSet for fluent-bit logs and metrics will be duplicated.
  In order to stop data duplication it is required to remove the temporary copy of fluent-bit DaemonSet after the upgrade has finished.
```

  ```bash
  helm upgrade collection sumologic/sumologic --version=2.0.0 -f new_values.yaml
  ```

### 5. Remove temporary instance of fluent-bit

Remove the temporary copy of fluent-bit DaemonSet to avoid of data duplication in longer period:

```bash
kubectl delete daemonset -l "app=fluent-bit,heritage=tmp,release=<RELEASE-NAME>"

> ```

Reviewer 2: I would move it as  `#### 3.1` or sth like that. IMHO its more intuitive to keep it in the fluent-bit upgrade section

### 5. Clean environment

> If you followed strategy with temporary instance of fluent-bit, described in [Preparing temporary instance of fluent-bit](#preparing-temporary-instance-of-fluent-bit) section, you need to remove the temporary fluent-bit DaemonSet to avoid of data duplication in longer period:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you followed strategy with temporary instance of fluent-bit, described in
[Preparing temporary instance of fluent-bit](#preparing-temporary-instance-of-fluent-bit) section,
you will need to remove the temporary fluent-bit DaemonSet to stop data duplication:
```

  ```bash
  helm upgrade collection sumologic/sumologic --version=2.0.0 -f new_values.yaml
  ```

> ### 5. Clean environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 5. Clean up the environment
```
